there are growing calls for a
humanitarian pause in the fighting
between Israel and Hamas so that
adequate Aid can be let into Gaza Israel
has allowed food and water and Medicine
into the territory but isn't allowing
fuel supplies over fears they'll end up
in the hands of Hamas the US Secretary
of State Anthony blinkin has proposed a
temporary law in
hostilities the war between Israel and
Hamas is having repercussions in every
corner of this volatile region our
Middle East correspondent yolan Nell
reports the slow trickle of Aid just
eight lores carrying water food and
Medicine made their way into Gaza last
night but what's not getting in is fuel
hospitals are struggling here Medics use
their phones to light the way as a
patient arrives as there's no fuel for
generators and they're overwhelmed by
casualties
Israel has banned fuel from entering the
territory saying Hamas designated as a
terrorist group by many Western
governments including the UK may use it
for military
purposes the UN agency which looks after
Palestinian refugees has warned it could
stop its operation in Gaza as soon as
tonight without
it if we do not get more fuel into Gaza
we as unra thear largest Aid agency in
Gaza will not be able to carry out any
humanitarian
operations with plenty of Aid building
up in Egypt there's frustration about
the sluggish relief effort this is one
of the wh truck loaded with the needed
urg urgent needs for patient inside Gaza
there is a trauma kits there is a
medicine and drugs there is a disposable
which is much needed now for the to
treat patient and to manage casuality
inside Gaza this baby was rescued by an
emergency cesarian after yesterday's
bombing inen Yunis its mom naen abua is
fighting for her life her husband a un
worker was killed and another five
family
members there's been a big jump in the
death toll with official Palestinian
figures showing many hundreds killed in
the past 24
hours at the UN the Secretary General
anonio gues said the bombardment and
blockade of Gaza violated international
law as did the use of civilians as human
Shields by Hamas I'm deeply concerned
about the clear violations of
international humanitarian law that we
are witnessing in
Gaza let me be clear no party to an
armed conflict is above International
humanitarian
law but diplomatic efforts continue now
international calls amounting for
humanitarian pors in fighting with the
US proposing a temporary lull in
hostilities short of a formal
ceasefire and while Israel's war with
Hamas is Raging there are other fronts
heating up thousands of troops are now
gathering on Israel's northern border
with Lebanon and there were strikes in
neighboring Syria overnight it adds to
the fears that what's happening in Gaza
will create wider Regional turmoil
yoland Nell BBC News
Jerusalem and Let's cross live now to
your land who's in Jerusalem your land
as you mentioned there the Israeli
government is pushing back against cause
for a pause or a ceasefire in this
conflict but how are people there in
Israel reacting to these calls from the
International
Community I mean this is all uh being
covered extensively in the Israeli media
as you would imagine um but really it's
the Israeli military that has sort of
been uh leading the the efforts here and
been talking about how Hamas in the past
has diverted fuel um that has uh gone to
the uh to the UN for its own military
infrastructure um so when it comes to a
pause in hostilities so that uh Aid can
get in in particular fuel um people are
saying well you know this is something
that Hamas has a responsibility here um
I mean it's very interesting because the
last few days there have been constant
questions about when a ground Invasion
uh might begin it does seem that the US
is putting pressure on Israel to hold
off on that at the moment and has now
come out with this new line about a sort
of temporary lull not a a full-on
ceasefire in order for Aid to get into
the people who really need it and and
How likely do you think that is because
over the last few weeks we've seen a lot
of support especially from Western
governments the United States the UK for
Israel's position but now there seems to
be a difference when it comes to the
humanitarian situation that's unfolding
right now in Gaza so what is the Israeli
government likely to do
now I mean certainly what we're seeing
is a lot of international pressure on
Israel it has ruled out itself uh any
idea of a a ceasefire in recent days but
maybe this new language um of a of a
temporary lull which the US Secretary
Anthony blinkin sort of made clear um
would be just in order for for AIDS to
get in to meet responsibilities for
civilians I mean there's been a lot of
uh diplomatic talk in the past 24 hours
about uh obligations under an
international law with when it comes to
protecting civilians saying that both
Hamas is hiding behind them using them
as human Shields but also this very
intense Israeli bombardment that is
seeing a really very high uh civilian uh
death toll according to the the local
Health authorities in Gaza more than 700
people killed in one day yesterday and
that was the biggest jump we've seen so
far in the death toll and these are just
really you know shocking images that are
going out the people are looking at all
around uh the world of of children who
are being killed in Gaza in particular
um the the the widespread destruction
that is taking place and yes calls are
growing internationally for
just some end to the hostilities even if
it's a temporary end others have been
calling Russia and the Arab countries
for a full on ceasefire but just to have
some kind of lull to let the aid in
there and just to explain um for our
viewers what's happening there at the
rougher Crossing so this is the only
open essentially open uh border into
Gaza uh on the border between Gaza and
Egypt but Israel does have a lot of
oversight in terms of what can get in
and out
that's correct so I mean yes this is the
only Crossing which is not operated by
Israel and Israel has said until its
hostages um come out of Gaza more than
200 people who are being held by Hamas
it will not open its Crossings again so
Egypt is the only option for now there
is plenty and plenty of Aid that has
been building up inside Egypt flown in
from around the world but huge sort of
disappointment and surp at how slow that
Aid is coming into Gaza um just eight
Lor loads yesterday and it was expected
that there would be a bigger Convoy even
then it's still a fraction of what used
to go into Gaza on a daily basis just to
meet people's ordinary um daily needs so
what the mechanism we haven't really got
full details of the um oversight that
Israel has but we know that there are
extremely stringent Security checks um
on everything that's going in and we've
seen uh prior to the rav cross in
opening uh several times Israel actually
bombed the area in air strikes around
the Raffa Crossing so it's made it very
clear that it can stop supplies going in
if it doesn't have those Security checks
carried out and um your land this is
shaping up to be a critical next few
hours according to the UN and Aid
agencies saying that they might have to
Hal their operations in Gaza because of
a lack of fuel what are we hearing about
the situation in guys are now as this
deadline the central deadline
approaches yeah I mean there have been
warnings for days about how fuel
supplies were dwindling and what's
actually happened is unrea it's the UN
Agency for Palestinian refugees and
because most of the 2.3 million people
living in Gaza are classed as refugees
so um has for a long time been
supporting them it has the biggest
footprint of any of the UN agencies in
the Gaza Strip so it's now been leading
um humanitarian operations and it's has
been going to its own fuel reserves what
it had uh and and working its way
through them sending small amounts
around to hospitals trying to keep
things going in their generators as much
as possible but now it's saying that
that fuel is completely completely uh
going to run out that means no fuel for
the the hospitals which is of course a
huge problem as we've been hearing but
also fuel is essential for other things
they're saying just to kind of have fuel
for the cars so that they can have their
their un workers get from place to place
in the Gaza Strip and then also fuel
could be used if it came in to run the
water desalination plants it could be
used to pump away sewage this is
something extremely important um with so
many people living in very overcrowded
uh conditions that can easily become um
unsanitary so really fuel is important
to so many operations but Israel remains
extremely concerned that any fuel that
would go in would go to Hamas and it's
been saying Hamas still has supplies ask
Hamas for fuel to power the hospitals
thank you very much that's our
correspondence your landel there in
Jerusalem